feat: audit scanner docs. (#199)
kubewarden/docs: docs/explanations/audit-scanner.md

---
sidebar_label: "Audit Scanner"
title: "Kubewarden Audit Scanner"
---

# Kubewarden Audit Scanner

Starting from version `v1.7.0`, Kubewarden introduces a new component called
the Audit Scanner. This scanner evaluates whether the resources running in the
cluster comply with the deployed policies. It is particularly useful when
policies are deployed after the resources. The Audit Scanner allows operators
to detect resources deployed before the policies that violate the validations
performed by the policies.

See [here](../howtos/audit-scanner) how to enable Audit Scanner

> ### Policy Reports

Reviewer: a doc page for the PolicyReports CRD exist at:

https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/045372e558b896695b2daae92e8c7a04d4d40282/policy-report/docs/index.html

It's quite a mouthful, and notice how I have just pinned to a specific commit that shows the v1alpha2 version. But I think we should use that specific commit.

Upstream has https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/master/policy-report/docs/index.html, which tracks `master` and shows docs for incomplete `v1beta1`. They are using that link at https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/master/policy-report/README.md.

Triggered https://doc.crds.dev/github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes but doesn't seem to recognize them.

The results of the policy reports generated by the Audit Scanner are stored in

> Kubernetes using the Policy Report CRDs. If you want to visualize and monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes using the PolicyReport CRDs. If you want to visualize and monitor
```

these reports, you can use the Policy Reporter tool available at [policy-reporter](https://github.com/kyverno/policy-reporter).

The Policy Reporter tool provides an optional UI to view and analyze the policy
reports, offering enhanced monitoring and observability capabilities.

When using the Kubewarden Audit Scanner, the results of the policy scans are

> stored in Policy Report Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs). Here are some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stored in PolicyReport Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs). Here are some
```

examples of policy reports and how they are structured:

To illustrate the usage of the audit scanner in Kubewarden, let's consider the
following scenario:

> Assume you have deployed a set of policies to enforce specific rules and

Reviewer: I think these paragraphs shouldn't be under `### Policy Reports` but merged outside, as they aren't explaining thing about PolicyReports

    namespace: default
    ...
  result: fail
  rule: no-privilege-escalation
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
- policy: cap-do-not-run-as-root
  ...
  resourceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: nginx-deployment
    namespace: default
    ...
  result: pass
  rule: do-not-run-as-root
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
...
summary:
  error: 0
  fail: 8
  pass: 10
  skip: 0
  warn: 0
```

In this example, the audit scanner has evaluated multiple policies on resources
within the `default` namespace. The results indicate that some of the resources
failed the validation for the `cap-no-privilege-escalation` policy, while
others passed the validation for the `cap-do-not-run-as-root` policy. The
`summary` section shows a summary of the audit results, indicating the number
of failures and passes.

By using the audit scanner and analyzing the generated audit reports, you can
gain insights into the compliance of your resources with the deployed policies,
helping you ensure that your cluster remains secure and adheres to the defined
rules and validations.

---

> ## Policy Annotations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Policies
```

Given that is not only annotations, but also the `spec.backgroundAudit`.
I think we should explain here the intrinsic limitations of the audit scanner as listed in the RFC, and I would prefer this section to be before the one of PolicyReports

Policies will be used by the audit scanner by default. Operators that want to
skip a policy evaluation in the Audit scanner should set `false` to the
`backgroundAudit` field in the policy spec. Furthermore,  policies in
Kubewarden now support two optional annotations:
`io.kubewarden.policy.severity` and `io.kubewarden.policy.category`. These
annotations can be defined in the `metadata.yml` file associated with a policy.

- The `io.kubewarden.policy.severity` annotation allows you to specify the
  severity level of the policy violation, such as "critical", "high", "medium",
  or "low".
- The `io.kubewarden.policy.category` annotation allows you to categorize the
  policy based on a specific domain or purpose, such as "security",
  "compliance", or "performance".

See an example of the `metadata.yaml` file in one of the [template
projects](https://github.com/kubewarden/rust-policy-template/blob/main/metadata.yml)

> 

Reviewer: later on I would add another section `### Permissions and ServiceAccounts`, that explains how the Audit Scanner reads from the cluster, and the default setup for its ServiceAccount as explained in the values.yaml comments, but with added links to the Kubernetes `view` SA and so.

---
sidebar_label: "Audit Scanner"

> title: "Kubewarden Audit Scanner"

Reviewer: (opening thread here randomly)

I think we should also add a page on the writing policies section. It would state what the audit scanner is and pointing to the explanation, and documenting `spec.backgroundAudit`, saying that is enabled by default, and that one should disable if the policy hits the intrinsic limitations documented in the explanation page.

---

> # Kubewarden Audit Scanner

Reviewer: suggestion: maybe we could call it "Background Audit Scanner"?
I would also remove "Kubewarden" from the title as it is a given I suppose.

Author: I think that "Background Audit Scanner" is too much. I would say that just "Audit Scanner" is good enough.

Starting from version `v1.7.0`, Kubewarden introduces a new component called

> the Audit Scanner. This scanner evaluates whether the resources running in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Audit Scanner. This scanner continuously evaluates whether the resources running in the
```

> cluster comply with the deployed policies. It is particularly useful when

Reviewer: I'm not sure I like making so much point about being useful for resources deployed before the policies, as it supports policies checking for UPDATE or DELETE. I think we should promote the idea that it gives a continuous feedback on the state of the cluster.

Author: I understand your point and I will add some information to make that clear. 

Just one note, we do not support `UPDATE` and `DELETE` events. Actually, we are only considering policies that watch for `CREATE` [event](https://github.com/kubewarden/audit-scanner/blob/8d9b30d6fd4c013c0bf146f8d4e22c1a06ed3404/internal/policies/filter.go#L31-L44). Therefore, the audit scanner will always simulate as if the resource is created on that time. Taking a look in the [RFC](https://github.com/kubewarden/rfc/blob/main/rfc/0011-audit-checks.md), we should consider `DELETE` events as well. Therefore, I believe we need to change the filter function and the [code](https://github.com/kubewarden/audit-scanner/blob/8d9b30d6fd4c013c0bf146f8d4e22c1a06ed3404/internal/resources/admission_request.go#L25C5-L25C10) that created the `AdmissionRequest`.

policies are deployed after the resources. The Audit Scanner allows operators
to detect resources deployed before the policies that violate the validations
performed by the policies.

To illustrate the usage of the audit scanner in Kubewarden, let's consider the
following scenario:

Assume you have deployed a set of policies to enforce specific rules and
validations on your Kubernetes cluster. However, some resources were deployed
before these policies were implemented, and you want to ensure that these
resources comply with the newly deployed policies.

To address this need, Kubewarden introduced the audit scanner component
starting from version `v1.7.0`. The audit scanner periodically evaluates the
resources running in your cluster and checks if they comply with the policies
that have been deployed. By doing so, it helps operators identify any resources
that violate the validations performed by the policies, even if they were
deployed before the policies themselves.

> See [here](../howtos/audit-scanner) how to enable Audit Scanner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [here](../howtos/audit-scanner) how to enable Audit Scanner.
```

> 

Reviewer: I think we should add an `### Intrinsic limitations`  section. Copy-pasted and trimmed from the RFC:

```
## Audit intrinsic limitations

### Policies checking `UPDATE` events

Policies can inspect `CREATE`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` events. The audit check
feature cannot intrinsically test for `UPDATE` events, as it doesn't know
exactly which part of the resource needs to `UPDATE` in a meaningful way.

Policies interested in `UPDATE` events will be run by the audit check, and
exercised for other operations, but not the `UPDATE` operation.

### Policies checking user and user group information

Each Kubernetes admission request object contains information about which user
(or ServiceAccount) initiated the event, and to which group they belong.

The audit feature cannot possibly infer what user or ServiceAccount to test
against, and will not produce a meaningful evaluation, as it will use its own
ServiceAccount.

The policy author should opt out of audit checks by setting
`spec.BackgroundAudit` to `false` for the policy.

### Policies relying on external data

Policies can request and use external data when performing an evaluation. These
policies can be evaluated by the audit checks, but their outcome can change over
time depending on the external data.

### Policies targetting `*`

Policies targetting any kind of Kubernetes resources are not being evaluated for
now. Users have to be explicit about the Kubernetes resources a policy targets
for now.

```

### Policy Reports

When using the Kubewarden Audit Scanner, the results of the policy scans are
stored in [PolicyReport](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/master/policy-report/docs/index.html) Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs).

:::caution
Note that the PolicyReport CRDs are under development in the `wg-policy`
Kubernetes group.Therefore, this documentation can be out of date if a new
version of the CRDs is released.

Check the `wg-policy` group
[repository](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes) out for
more information about the CRDs.
:::

> The audit scanner stores the audit results in the Policy Report Custom Resource

Reviewer: this first phrase is repeated from the one in line 34, I would drop it, and start with "The PolicyReports CRDs provide.."

Definitions (CRDs) created by the `wg-policy` Kubernetes group. These CRDs
provide a structured way to store and manage the audit results. Each namespace
scanned by the audit scanner will have a separate report associated with it.

> Cluster wide resources will have a separate report as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster wide resources have a separate ClusterPolicyReport as well.
```

> To use the audit scanner, you need to manually install the Policy Report CRDs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the audit scanner, you need to manually install the PolicyReport CRDs
```

or use the version installed by `kubewarden-crds`.  These CRDs define the
structure and schema for the audit reports generated by the scanner.

> The audit results generated by the scanner include various information, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The audit results generated by the scanner includes various information, such as
```

You can also leverage the optional UI provided by the
[policy-reporter](https://github.com/kyverno/policy-reporter) tool for
monitoring and observability of the PolicyReport CRDs.  Furthermore, operators
can access the reports via ordinary `kubectl` commands.

Let's take a look at some example audit results generated by the audit scanner:

### Cluster-Wide Audit Results example

```yaml
apiVersion: wgpolicyk8s.io/v1beta1
kind: ClusterPolicyReport
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2023-07-10T19:25:40Z"
  generation: 1
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: kubewarden
  ...
results:
- policy: cap-testing-cap-policy
  ...
  resourceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - apiVersion: v1
    kind: Namespace
    name: kube-system
    ...
  result: pass
  rule: testing-cap-policy
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017140
- policy: cap-testing-cap-policy
  ...
  resourceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - apiVersion: v1
    kind: Namespace
    name: default
    ...
  result: pass
  rule: testing-cap-policy
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017140
...
summary:
  error: 0
  fail: 0
  pass: 6
  skip: 0
  warn: 0
```

> In the above example, the audit scanner has evaluated the

Reviewer: I would prefer to have the explanations before the examples. So, "In the following example, this and that:" and then the Yaml.

    namespace: default
    ...
  result: fail
  rule: no-privilege-escalation
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
- policy: cap-do-not-run-as-root
  ...
  resourceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: nginx-deployment
    namespace: default
    ...
  result: pass
  rule: do-not-run-as-root
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
...
summary:
  error: 0
  fail: 8
  pass: 10
  skip: 0
  warn: 0
```

In this example, the audit scanner has evaluated multiple policies on resources
within the `default` namespace. The results indicate that some of the resources
failed the validation for the `cap-no-privilege-escalation` policy, while
others passed the validation for the `cap-do-not-run-as-root` policy. The
`summary` section shows a summary of the audit results, indicating the number
of failures and passes.

By using the audit scanner and analyzing the generated audit reports, you can
gain insights into the compliance of your resources with the deployed policies,
helping you ensure that your cluster remains secure and adheres to the defined
rules and validations.

---

## Policies

> Policies will be used by the audit scanner by default. Operators that want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policies will be evaluated by the audit scanner by default. Operators that want to
```

skip a policy evaluation in the Audit scanner should set `false` to the
`backgroundAudit` field in the policy spec. Furthermore,  policies in
Kubewarden now support two optional annotations:
`io.kubewarden.policy.severity` and `io.kubewarden.policy.category`. These
annotations can be defined in the `metadata.yml` file associated with a policy.

> - The `io.kubewarden.policy.severity` annotation allows you to specify the

Reviewer: Since we are listing the severities, I would list all the possible values (info, low, medium, high, critical).

  severity level of the policy violation, such as "critical", "high", "medium",
  or "low".
- The `io.kubewarden.policy.category` annotation allows you to categorize the

>   policy based on a specific domain or purpose, such as "security",

Reviewer: I would prefer more specific category examples that drive the point better, for example:

```suggestion
  policy based on a specific domain or purpose, such as "PSP",
```

  "compliance", or "performance".

> See an example of the `metadata.yaml` file in one of the [template

Reviewer: I would substitute this phrase for "See the policy authors docs for more info".

projects](https://github.com/kubewarden/rust-policy-template/blob/main/metadata.yml)

## Permissions and ServiceAccounts

The audit scanner in Kubernetes requires specific RBAC configurations to

> function effectively. These configurations grant necessary permissions for

Reviewer: I would like to reword this so the reason is more clear, and also we say that by default it comes configured.
Something like:

> The audit scanner in Kubernetes requires specific RBAC configurations to
be able to scan Kubernetes resources and save the results. A sane default `ServiceAccount` with those permissions is included, but the user can fine-tune to their needs by providing their own `ServiceAccount`, which will we used to run the audit-scanner.
> 
> The default `ServiceAccount` of the audit scanner is bound to the `view` `ClusterRole` (...). In addition, the audit scanner is also bound to a `ClusterRole` that grants read access to Kubewarden (...)

time depending on the external data.

### Policies targeting `*`

Policies targeting any kind of Kubernetes resources are not being evaluated for
now. Users have to be explicit about the Kubernetes resources a policy targets
for now.

## Policy Reports

When using the Kubewarden Audit Scanner, the results of the policy scans are
stored in [PolicyReport](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/master/policy-report/docs/index.html) Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs).

:::caution
Note that the PolicyReport CRDs are under development in the `wg-policy`
Kubernetes group. Therefore, this documentation can be out of date if a new
version of the CRDs is released.

Check the `wg-policy` group
[repository](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes) out for
more information about the CRDs.
:::

These CRDs provide a structured way to store and manage the audit results. Each
namespace scanned by the audit scanner will have a separate namespaced
`PolicyReport` associated with it. Cluster wide resources have a separate
`ClusterPolicyReport` as well.

To use the audit scanner, you need to manually install the PolicyReport CRDs

> or use the version installed by `kubewarden-crds`.  These CRDs define the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or use the version installed by the `kubewarden-crds` chart.  These CRDs define the
```

structure and schema for the audit reports generated by the scanner.

The audit results generated by the scanner includes various information, such as
the policy that was evaluated, the resource being scanned, the result of the
evaluation (pass, fail, or skip), and a timestamp indicating when the
evaluation took place. Additionally, you can optionally define severity and

> category annotations for your policies in the `metadata.yml` file.

Reviewer: I think we should not mention `metadata.yml` file. That's only for policy authors, not policy consumers.

```suggestion
category annotations for your policies.
```

You can also leverage the optional UI provided by the
[policy-reporter](https://github.com/kyverno/policy-reporter) tool for
monitoring and observability of the PolicyReport CRDs.  Furthermore, operators
can access the reports via ordinary `kubectl` commands.

Let's take a look at some example audit results generated by the audit scanner:

### Cluster-Wide Audit Results example

> In the above example, the audit scanner has evaluated the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the next example, the audit scanner has evaluated the
```

`cap-testing-cap-policy` on multiple namespaces in the cluster. The results
indicate that all the namespaces passed the policy validation. The `summary`

> section provides a summary of the audit results, showing that there were no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
section provides a summary of the audit results, showing there were no
```

of failures and passes.

```yaml
apiVersion: wgpolicyk8s.io/v1beta1
kind: PolicyReport
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2023-07-10T19:28:05Z"
  generation: 4
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: kubewarden
  ...
results:
- message: one of the containers has privilege escalation enabled
  policy: cap-no-privilege-escalation
  ...
  resourceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: nginx-deployment
    namespace: default
    ...
  result: fail
  rule: no-privilege-escalation
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
- policy: cap-do-not-run-as-root
  ...
  resourceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: nginx-deployment
    namespace: default
    ...
  result: pass
  rule: do-not-run-as-root
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
...
summary:
  error: 0
  fail: 8
  pass: 10
  skip: 0
  warn: 0
```

By using the audit scanner and analyzing the generated audit reports, you can
gain insights into the compliance of your resources with the deployed policies,
helping you ensure that your cluster remains secure and adheres to the defined

> rules and validations.

Reviewer 2: This sounds like a repetition. I would drop it

---

## Policies

> Policies will be evaluated by the audit scanner by default. Operators that want to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, every policy is evaluated by the audit scanner. Operators that want to
```

---
sidebar_label: "Audit Scanner"
title: "Audit Scanner"
---

# Audit Scanner

Beginning with version `v1.7.0`, Kubewarden has added a new feature called the
Audit Scanner. This component constantly checks if the resources running in the
cluster adhere to the applied policies. It becomes especially handy when
policies are deployed or updated, potentially modifying what was previously
allowed in the cluster. The Audit Scanner provides operators with a tool to
consistently verify whether any resources in the cluster violate the existing
security and compliance rules. This can happen if the resources were deployed
prior to the policies or if the policies were updated afterwards.

To illustrate the usage of the audit scanner in Kubewarden, let's consider the
following scenario:

Assume you have deployed a set of policies to enforce specific rules and
validations on your Kubernetes cluster. However, some resources were deployed
before these policies were implemented, and you want to ensure that these
resources comply with the newly deployed policies.

> To address this need, Kubewarden introduced the audit scanner component

Reviewer: this paragraph is a bit of a repeat of the first paragraph.

Maybe I would try to simplify the scenario example, and summarize it on 2 lines or so.

(or ServiceAccount) initiated the event, and to which group they belong.

The audit feature cannot possibly infer what user or ServiceAccount to test
against, and will not produce a meaningful evaluation, as it will use its own
ServiceAccount. For these cases, the policy should be configured to be skipped
from audit checks.

### Policies relying on external data

Policies can request and use external data when performing an evaluation. These
policies can be evaluated by the audit checks, but their outcome can change over
time depending on the external data.

### Policies targeting `*`

Policies targeting any kind of Kubernetes resources are not being evaluated for
now. Users have to be explicit about the Kubernetes resources a policy targets
for now.

## Policy Reports

When using the Kubewarden Audit Scanner, the results of the policy scans are
stored in [PolicyReport](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes/blob/master/policy-report/docs/index.html) Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs).

:::caution
Note that the PolicyReport CRDs are under development in the `wg-policy`

> Kubernetes group.Therefore, this documentation can be out of date if a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes group. Therefore, this documentation can be out of date if a new
```

version of the CRDs is released.

Check the `wg-policy` group
[repository](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes) out for
more information about the CRDs.
:::

These CRDs provide a structured way to store and manage the audit results. Each

> namespace scanned by the audit scanner will have a separate report associated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
namespace scanned by the audit scanner will have a separate `PolicyReport` associated
```

  ...
results:
- message: one of the containers has privilege escalation enabled
  policy: cap-no-privilege-escalation
  ...
  resourceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: nginx-deployment
    namespace: default
    ...
  result: fail
  rule: no-privilege-escalation
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
- policy: cap-do-not-run-as-root
  ...
  resourceSelector: {}
  resources:
  - apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: nginx-deployment
    namespace: default
    ...
  result: pass
  rule: do-not-run-as-root
  source: kubewarden
  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
...
summary:
  error: 0
  fail: 8
  pass: 10
  skip: 0
  warn: 0
```

By using the audit scanner and analyzing the generated audit reports, you can
gain insights into the compliance of your resources with the deployed policies,
helping you ensure that your cluster remains secure and adheres to the defined
rules and validations.

---

## Policies

Policies will be evaluated by the audit scanner by default. Operators that want to
skip a policy evaluation in the Audit scanner should set `false` to the

> `backgroundAudit` field in the policy spec. Furthermore,  policies in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`spec.backgroundAudit` field in the policy definition. Furthermore,  policies in
```

> Kubewarden now support two optional annotations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubewarden now support two optional `metadata.annotations`:
```

> Kubewarden now support two optional annotations:

Reviewer: I think this should be refactored to not sound like release notes but evergreen info.
Something like:

> The Audit Scanner also uses the following policy `metadata.annotations` in the created PolicyReport results:
> - `io.kubewarden.policy.severity`: One of (...). The Audit Scanner will always record the result as `info` severity if the policy was deployed in monitor mode.
> - `io.kubewarden.policy.category:` (...)

Now that I think about it, we shouldn't mention `metadata.yaml` here, that's only for policy writers. Policy users just consume the annotations from `kwctl scaffold` or change them.

`io.kubewarden.policy.severity` and `io.kubewarden.policy.category`. These
annotations can be defined in the `metadata.yml` file associated with a policy.

- The `io.kubewarden.policy.severity` annotation allows you to specify the
  severity level of the policy violation, such as "critical", "high", "medium",
  "low" or "info".
- The `io.kubewarden.policy.category` annotation allows you to categorize the
  policy based on a specific domain or purpose, such as "PSP",
  "compliance", or "performance".

See the policy authors [docs](../writing-policies/index.md) for more info.
Furthermore, the `metadata.yaml` file in one of the [template
projects](https://github.com/kubewarden/rust-policy-template/blob/main/metadata.yml)

> can be a nice example how to configure the policy

Reviewer: I would remove the line "Furthermore, the `metadata.yaml` (...)". That's info for policy authors. To configure a policy, one does `kwctl scaffold` and changes whatever one wants.

## Permissions and ServiceAccounts

The audit scanner in Kubernetes requires specific RBAC configurations to be
able to scan Kubernetes resources and save the results. A sane default
ServiceAccount with those permissions are created during the installation. But
the user can fine-tune to their needs by providing their own ServiceAccount,
which will we used to run the audit-scanner.

The default audit scanner `ServiceAccount` is bound to the default `view`

> `ClusterRole` provided by the API Server. This `ClusterRole` allows read-only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ClusterRole` provided by  Kubernetes. This `ClusterRole` allows read-only
```

:::caution
Note that the PolicyReport CRDs are under development in the `wg-policy`
Kubernetes group. Therefore, this documentation can be out of date if a new
version of the CRDs is released.

Check the `wg-policy` group
[repository](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-policy-prototypes) for
more information about the CRDs.
:::

These CRDs provide a structured way to store and manage the audit results.

Each namespace scanned by the audit scanner will have a dedicated
`PolicyReport` resource defined inside of it.

The results of Cluster wide resources are going to be found
inside of a `ClusterPolicyReport` object. There is going to be only
one `ClusterPolicyReport` per cluster.

The audit results generated by the scanner includes various information, such as
the policy that was evaluated, the resource being scanned, the result of the
evaluation (pass, fail, or skip), and a timestamp indicating when the
evaluation took place. Additionally, you can optionally define severity and
category annotations for your policies.

You can also leverage the optional UI provided by the

> [policy-reporter](https://github.com/kyverno/policy-reporter) tool for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[policy-reporter](https://github.com/kyverno/policy-reporter) open source project for
```

  timestamp:
    nanos: 0
    seconds: 1689017383
...
summary:
  error: 0
  fail: 8
  pass: 10
  skip: 0
  warn: 0
```

---

## Policies

By default, every policy is evaluated by the audit scanner. Operators that want to
skip a policy evaluation in the Audit scanner should set the the
`spec.backgroundAudit` field to `false` inside of the policy definition. Furthermore,  policies in
Kubewarden now support two optional annotations:
`io.kubewarden.policy.severity` and `io.kubewarden.policy.category`:

- The `io.kubewarden.policy.severity` annotation allows you to specify the
  severity level of the policy violation, such as "critical", "high", "medium",
  "low" or "info".
- The `io.kubewarden.policy.category` annotation allows you to categorize the
  policy based on a specific domain or purpose, such as "PSP",
  "compliance", or "performance".

See the policy authors [docs](../writing-policies/index.md) for more info.

## Permissions and ServiceAccounts

The audit scanner in Kubernetes requires specific RBAC configurations to be
able to scan Kubernetes resources and save the results. A sane default
Service Account with those permissions is created during the installation. But

> the user provide their own ServiceAccount to fine tune access to resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the user can provide their own ServiceAccount to fine tune access to resources.
```

> The default audit scanner `ServiceAccount` is bound to the default `view`

Reviewer 2: Repetition of `default`, I'm dropping one:

```suggestion
The default audit scanner `ServiceAccount` is bound to the `view`
```

`ClusterRole` provided by Kubernetes. This `ClusterRole` allows read-only
access to a wide range of Kubernetes resources within a namespace.  You can
find more details about this role in the [Kubernetes
documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#user-facing-roles).

In addition, the audit scanner is also bound to a `ClusterRole` that grants
read access to Kubewarden resource types and read-write access to the
`PolicyReport` CRDs. These permissions enable the scanner to fetch resources
for conducting audit evaluations and create policy reports based on the
evaluation results.

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: nit, removing all the new lines:

```suggestion
```
